Welcome back everyone.
Let's begin by walking through a simple flask.
Off and in this case we're going to be using Google open authorization with flask dance.
We're going to do it just set up a very simple home page and the home page is going to also link to
a welcome page however that welcome page is only going to be accessible.
If you've already authenticated yourself with Google.
So tell me how to set this whole thing up.
We'll begin by jumping over toward sex ed..
OK.
Here I am at the Adam text editor.
I already have a folder called flask examples and underneath that I have a template directory.
What I'm going to do is underneath flask examples I'll create a new file called app pie.
So this is just apple pie.
And that's going to hold essentially all my code code.
And then underneath templates what I want to do is set up two new template files will say one is home
HMO and the other one will go ahead and be welcome each team L and welcome each team and it's only going
to work if someone's actually logged in and authenticated through Google if it's not.
We'll have that show some sort of internal server.
So we'll say welcome to e-mail and home page T.M..
We'll deal with those later on.
But let's begin by setting up our apple pie file.
Now quick note because we're actually using open authorization locally.
We have to set up some environmental environment variables in order to make sure we don't get any errors.
And this is mainly because OPAR ization is not really meant to be used locally in the way we're doing
it.
It's really meant to be used once you deploy your Web site.
So because of that we need to set up two environment variables and we can do this actually programmatically
of Python using the import os call.
We'll see say import os and then OS environ to the sets up an environment variable.
This is actually really similar to what we did at the command line when we set up our flask app environment
variable.
If you recall that we're going to say go offline underscore in secure underscore transport.
Make sure you spell that right transport.
And so equal to the string one notices the string there.
And then one last one we going to set up as OS environ.
I'll say oh off lib underscore relax underscore tokin underscore scope and also that equal to 1 as well.
Again yes do this if you're running and testing things locally you won't have to set up these environment
variables when you actually the ploy the Web site going to collapse this Left-Hand tab.
Now that we have everything set up and let's actually begin afoot I would call kind of the true sense
of flask dance.
So again this has to do is just making sure things run locally.
Any errors we're going to start off by saying from flask import import flask.
Redirect your URL for render template and then we'll say from flask underscore dance doc contrib doc.
And in this case we're going to be using Google.
So say Doc contrib dot Google import and we're going to make a Google blueprints and then we'll also
import this Google kind of keyword function.
OK.
So we'll set up our flask application as usual safe flask pass the name and then in order to accept
any forms we can always set up the secret key.
We'll see at that config.
Seeker underscore key and in this case we'll just set it to any string you want.
I'll say my secret and then comes out of the main line which is actually setting up the blueprint.
So this will say that the variable blueprint is equal to the call make Google blueprint and you can
check out in the documentation the various parameters you can do here.
Well we're going to do is we're going to do the following.
I'm going to have a client I.D. I'll set that up as just an empty string for now because we actually
need to set that up with Google.
So we have client ID that's a blank string.
Right now we also have client secrets.
That's another story you're going to need to discover.
But we'll leave it blank right now.
And since we're running everything off line we'll say off line is equal to true by default.
It's usually false but we're running things locally.
So I'll say offline is equal to true.
And then finally ups will also say that the scope of essentially the information we want back is a list
with profile and email okay.
And then we can do this a little bit so it looks a little nicer.
So those are the parameters that we're going to be working with.
Again you can check of the documentation there's a lot more parameters you can add in this blueprint
to kind of fine tune it to your specific situation but in our case we're doing very simple things we
use and there's going to show that hey here's this users e-mail.
So again we have Client ID clients secret and then off line is true since we're running is locally Elisei
scope so now that I've set up my blueprint what I'm going to do is register this blueprint so say at
DOT register blueprint and hopefully this feels familiar from our scaling lectures to kind of larger
scope that will just pass and that blueprint we created and then the world Prefect's we're going to
give this we'll say your L prefix and set that equal to forward slash log in.
So we're basically seeking logons to go straight to Google.
So when someone clicks hey it's time to log in.
Essentially a new window is going to open up or they'll be jumped to a new page where we have to sign
in with your Google email and password.
OK so we've reached her that blueprint.
Now we're going to do it just set up our templates so start off with the home template.
So that's the easiest one.
And let's actually kind of get some more lines here.
So this is the middle of screen zoom in a little bit.
Say app that route will say the home page that's just going to be equal to index.
And here we're just going to return render a template and we'll say render home.
H.M. right now home that 20:00 is blank.
So let's check it out and fill it in.
Going to go to Home each T.M. here.
And much smelts can be super simple.
It's just going to say home page as a heading 1.
And then what we're going to do as well is say have two links.
One is an ref and this will point to your L4 and here will say The View welcome which we haven't actually
built here but we will in just a second and we'll say welcome page here.
They'll will create a break then we'll add in one more link and this one is going to be your l4.
In this case it's going to connect to the log in and then will say log in here with Google.
So essentially we're going to do is when the person visits the home page will have the option of visiting
the welcome page which is another view that's going to connect to this welcome each time.
All right now that's blank.
And then the other option is going to be log in here of Google.
So if they try to click welcome page here and they're not actually authenticated of Google yet then
this is going to show some sort of error then they'll be able to come back to the home page and click
log in here of Google.
And then once they log on to Google they'll be taken back to the home page and then they can click this
welcome page and they'll be able to see whatever we actually post and welcome each team L which will
edit in just a second.
But that's your basic home H.T. mail page.
We'll come back to that pie.
And since we've been talking about that welcome view let's kind of set it up but in order to set up
the welcome view we'll have to set up our log in view.
So I'll start off just by setting up the skeleton of welcome to all of the forward slash welcome and
I will say the welcome and right now I'm just going to say return rendered template welcome.
H T.M..
So we're going to still fill in a lot more to welcome as well as pasand some parameters and the welcome
each T.M..
But in order for that to make sense I want to first set up my log in so here to say app thought routes
and let's say forward slash log in forward slash Google and that is to make sure we don't get an error
when we actually connect this to the Google blueprint.
They'll all say the log in and will do the following check we'll say if not google doc authorized and
where that comes from is essentially up here.
When we imported Google from Flashdance thought contrib Google we can check if that person is Google
authorized or not.
So if they're not authorized then we're going to do is we're going to return and recall render a template.
Your L4 and we're going to pass in google doc loggin and this is essentially an automated call from
flask that's to take you to that little screen where it asks you to log in to Google credentials.
So essentially Flast dance is doing a ton of heavy lifting through just two liners here.
Google to authorize and this your all for Google dot logon.
That's taking care of kind of all the dirty work for us.
Now if it come to the logon page and they actually are already Google authorized meaning they already
sign up with their credentials.
We're going to do is grab a response.
So say RISP is equal to google.
Don't get in what we have to passen Here's a string o off too.
So that's open authorization to version to slash user info.
And you'll want to make sure to check the Flast dance documentation for whatever the latest version
of the string is.
So this is it guys may change in the future so once we grab that response we're just going to assert
that the response was OK meaning it just wasn't blank or was empty.
And then also say response dot text.
So once we actually response that hey we actually got a response and there's something in there it spots.
So that's what this line 32 is doing.
Then we actually grab stuff from that response and it's essentially on file.
So something we think rap is that person's email.
So when someone actually registers and authenticates through Google they essentially say yes you can
have access to my e-mail if you ever use google and download an app sometimes you'll say something like
allow this app to have permissions to you know your contacts or your phone number or your e-mail et
cetera.
That's essentially what's happening here through our web application.
When someone logs in and authenticate through this we'll be able to say yes I allow this flask Web sites
have access to my e-mail.
So we're going to do so here say e-mail response thought Jason.
And after that since Jason essentially is like a dictionary we can grab that e-mail key.
So this e-mails now the e-mail address of whoever logged in
here are going to return rendered template and we'll say here welcome the h t m l and then we're going
to pass and email is equal to email.
OK.
So notice here that this loggin is also going to render this welcome.
H Tim L.
So right after the log then essentially if they click here on the home page time to log in and they're
already logged then it takes them to this.
Welcome to T.M..
However we're going to set up a separate welcome HVM L are basically a review for welcome so that the
user is not logged in and they tried to just jump ahead by clicking here on welcome page.
We'll kind of check as well.
So this will actually then this will basically kind of prove to you that the person has the log in.
So this should return an error an internal server error.
If not locked in.
Now whether or not you would set it up this way this is more for demonstration purposes just to kind
of show you that yes in fact that Google open authorization is working.
So I kind of think of this more as an example just to prove it to ourselves that it's working than something
you would actually do.
And if you notice a quick start guides they're not going to have things like this linking to the templates
but this is more for me to really prove to you that you're not going to get access to this and in effect
they'll return a server error.
So we're going to copy the exact same code from down here describing the response pacing in here and
then we'll passen e-mails he calls the.
So again if someone tries to visit this welcome page and they're not wog then then essentially this
is going to return an error because this is not going to be OK and they'll get some sort of internal
server error and if they are logged in then everything's going to be okeydokey here and they'll be able
to see it.
OK.
So we'll kind of show that when we actually run this page.
But last thing we need to do is set up welcome each team.
So let's come back to this.
Welcome to email.
That is now empty.
Remember we were passing in this h this email variable.
So this is going to be a really simple web site or web page just says welcome.
Google user and then we'll say H-2 your email is and then we'll just pass on their e-mail because remember
if we come back to Apple Pie we're passing in this e-mail variable from that response from Google that
get user info.
OK.
So essentially we've done everything that we need to do on the flock's side.
The next thing we need to do is actually grab and set up this client id as well as this client secret
key which is going to be what we're doing in the next video.
A quick review of everything we set up so far.
We started off by setting the environment variables we need in order for this to run locally with no
errors.
Then we performed our imports.
We set up this Google blueprint.
And you can check out the Flast dance documentation page for all the details on these blueprints.
They have different blueprints for essentially each different log and so there's a Facebook blueprint
a slack blueprint et cetera and often change.
So we want to be up to date with the latest from the documentation.
We register that blueprint to log in.
We set up our index page.
We have this welcome page that is isn't going to work unless the person is actually logged in.
So if we can't assert that there is actually a response from Google saying there are log then then this
will return some sort of internal server error essentially showing you that someone can't just jump
ahead and go to welcome.
And more importantly we have log in.
So we say if the Google's person is authorized go ahead and return this template for Googlebot log in
which has been automatically already set up for us from flask thence and then we have the same sort
of grabbing the response that if that is all OK.
Mean they're already logged then that we should render the welcome team template which again is just
this page right here that shows that person's e-mail.
OK.
So coming up next we're going to show you how you can set up this client id and client secret with Google.
Keep in mind that these instructions may change in the future.
So you want to check the Flast dance documentation to get the latest API code.
All right we'll see in the next lecture.